 <!-- Author: Yuxuan Jiang | Group 10 -->
 <!--CS225 Homework 3 Q3   -->
# Exercise 3
### 3.1
**The Sorted Version**  
Maintain the list in ascending order of priority.  
**The Unsorted Version**  
Inserting new elements at the next of the dummy node. Traverse the whole list to locate the minimum.

### 3.2
|| $delete\_min()$ | $insert(k)$| $delete(h)$|$decrease(h,k)$|
|:-----  |:----------:|:---------:|:-:|:-:|
|Sorted  |$O(1)$|$O(n)$|$O(1)$|$O(n)$|
|Unsorted|$O(n)$|$O(1)$|$O(1)$|$O(1)$|


> **Justification of the Complexity:**  
> 1. $delete\_min()$  
> For the sorted list, $delete\_min()$ can be done by just deleting the first element encountered in the list, which takes $O(1)$ time.  
> For the unsorted list, $delete\_min()$ requires to traverse the entire list in order to determine the minimum, which takes $O(n)$ time.
> 2. $insert(k)$  
> For the sorted list, $insert(k)$ requires to traverse the list to determine to location where the element to be inserted should be, which takes $O(n)$ time.  
> For the unsorted list, $insert(k)$ can be done by simply adding the element at the next of the dummy node, which takes $O(1)$ time.
> 3. $delete(h)$  
> Given the handle, for both lists we can directly access the element to be deleted, then the deletion takes constant time, thus the entire function takes $O(1)$ time for both options.
> 4. $decrease(h,k)$  
> For the sorted list, $decrease(h,k)$ is equivalent to first $delete(h)$ and then $insert(k)$, thus taking $O(n)$ time as having been justified in 2. and 3.   
> For the unsorted list, $decrease(h,k)$ is equivalent to first $delete(h)$ and then $insert(k)$, thus taking $O(1)$ time as having been justified in 2. and 3.